---
layout: news_entry
category: news
title: IES Awards Three-Year Grant to CALA 
---
Tallahassee, Fla. -- The Center for Advancement of Learning and Assessment (CALA) has been awarded a $2 million grant by the U.S. Department of Education’s Institute of Education Sciences. The three-year grant will be used to investigate ways to improve how students are assessed through high-stakes tests in middle school science.

The research will focus on middle school science content that cannot be assessed adequately with conventional paper-and-pencil tests and will involve performance measures where students are asked to complete hands-on tasks. Selected teachers and students in seventh-grade classrooms within the Tallahassee region will participate in the research.

“Given the importance associated with statewide and other large-scale assessments, it is critical that these assessments involve essential skills that are beyond the reach of traditional tests,” said Faranak Rohani, CALA director and the project’s principal investigator. “Furthermore, the central focus of these assessments should be on improving the learning of the students who are taking the tests. Assessments should not be a stratagem employed against teachers, but rather a tool designed to help teachers leverage learning in the classroom.”

The research includes three interrelated parts that are designed to make performance measures more cost effective and the results more instructionally useful. The first part involves the feasibility of administering statewide assessments to carefully selected samples of science students to estimate the achievement of groups of students. This sampling strategy will give educators a picture of students’ proficiency with skills that cannot be measured through conventional assessments. The second part entails providing teachers with the means of developing parallel assessments to evaluate the achievement of individual students. If the teachers’ assessments provide results similar to those obtained from the sampled students, then the two assessments help validate each other. The final part involves training teachers on the most effective approaches for providing constructive feedback to students based on the teachers’ assessments.

The research team comprises Rohani and five Florida State University faculty members: Albert Oosterhof, CALA and the Educational Psychology and Learning Systems Department; Valerie Shute and Yanyun Yang, Educational Psychology and Learning Systems Department; Penny Gilmer, the Nancy Marcus Professor of Chemistry and Biochemistry; and Danielle Sherdan, Learning Systems Institute.
