---
layout: news_entry
categories: [news, ies]
title: CALA Presents at Assessment Conference
---
h1. CALA Presents at Assessment Conference

_July 23, 2008_

Tallahassee, Fla. – The Center for Advancement of Learning and Assessment (CALA), based at Florida State University’s research and development complex, presented its newly developed capabilities-complexity model at the National Conference on Student Assessment in Orlando, Fla., in June 2008.

Sponsored by the Council of Chief State School Officers, the conference is the largest national assembly of assessment professionals. The CALA session--"Including Types of Capabilities when Balancing a Large-Scale Assessment"--described the Capabilities-Complexity Model developed by CALA for the Florida Department of Education. The model contributes to the production of rigorous, defensible assessments.

Dr. Albert Oosterhof, CALA/FSU professor, and Dr. Cornelia Orr, Assistant Deputy Commissioner of Accountability, Research, and Measurement for the Florida Department of Education, served as lead presenter and moderator at the conference. Dr. Norman Webb of the Wisconsin Center for Education Research served as session discussant. Webb’s nationally recognized Depth of Knowledge model is used for the National Assessment of Educational Progress and numerous other national assessments, including FCAT.

According to Dr. Oosterhof, "The Capabilities-Complexity Model simplifies the difficult task of monitoring the cognitive complexity of assessments. More importantly, it can provide a vehicle for establishing areas in which classroom and large-scale assessments can actually supplement each other."

"Traditionally, our teachers have been the forgotten force in assessment,” said Dr. Faranak Rohani, the director of CALA. “What we heard most frequently from teachers who were being trained in our model was that it helped them understand why their students had difficulty with certain types of assessment and what needs to be done instructionally to help improve student growth and achievement."
